# Chapter 17 Setting Options
Read the topics that follow to learn more about multi-step procedures for setting options in SailWind Layout.

[Creating a Backup File](#page-0-0) [Setting the Display Grid](#page-1-0) [Setting the Design Grid](#page-1-1) [Setting Up a Polar Grid](#page-1-2) DRC and the Via Stitching and Shielding [Operations](#page-2-0)

## Creating a Backup File
SailWind Layout automatically backs up your files based on the settings you choose.

**Procedure**

- 1. Click the **Tools > Options** menu item > **Global** category > Backups subcategoryon page 1527.
- 2. In the Interval box, type the time in minutes between backups.
- 3. In the Number of Backups box, type the quantity (1-9) of different backup files to create. Backup files are named *<design\_name>#.pcb*, where # is a sequential number. For example, *Layout1.pcb*, *Layout2.pcb*, and so on.
- 4. If you want to change the folder or name of the backup file, click **Backup File**. The Backup File dialog box appears. Browse to the folder, type the file name, and then click **Save**.
- 5. Select the "Use design name in backup file name" check box to use the design name instead of the product name as the file name. For example, *preview\_Layout1.pcb*, *preview\_Layout2.pcb* instead of *layout1.pcb*, *layout2.pcb*.
- 6. Select the "Create backup files in design directory" check box to place all of your backup files in the same directory as the design. Clear the check box if you want your backup files in one, common backup directory.

**Results**

| If this is selected:                       |                                        | The Backup File is Saved                         |
|--------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| Create backup files<br>in design directory | Use design Name<br>in backup file name |                                                  |
|                                            |                                        | in one common directory without the design name. |
| X                                          | X                                      | in the design directory using the design name.   |
| X                                          |                                        | in the design directory without the design name. |

**Table 74. Backup File Creation**

| If this is selected: |   | The Backup File is Saved                       |
|----------------------|---|------------------------------------------------|
|                      | X | in one common directory using the design name. |

**Table 74. Backup File Creation(continued)**

## Setting the Display Grid
You can set a visible dot grid in the design area to aid in component placement.

**Procedure**

- 1. Click the **Tools > Options** menu item > Grids and Snap category > Grids subcategoryon page 1537.
- 2. In the Display grid area, type a value for the X and Y values. You can set this grid to the same setting as the design grid or give it a different set of values like a multiple of the design grid. For example if your design grid is 5,5 mils, set the grid to 20,20. You will see the grid when using a higher magnification and can easily perceive the invisible grid locations between the dot grid.

**Tip** The fastest and most convenient way to change this grid is to use the Modeless Command on page 83 instead of using the Options dialog box; type GD <x> <y> and press the Enter key. For example, GD 100 100.

## Setting the Design Grid
Set the design grid for placement of components, traces and drafting objects.

**Procedure**

- 1. Click the **Tools > Options**menu item > Grids and Snap category > Grids subcategoryon page 1537.
- 2. In the Design grid area, type a value for the X and Y values. To improve routing, set the design grid to the minimum trace width + minimum trace to trace spacing or a multiple of this value.

**Tip** The fastest and most convenient way to change this grid is to use the Modeless Command on page 83 instead of using the Options dialog box; type GR <x> <y> and press the Enter key. For example, GR 100 100. To set the design and via grid to the same setting, type G <x> <y> and press the Enter key.

## Setting Up a Polar Grid
Before using Radial Move, set up a polar grid and the move options.

**Procedure**

- 1. Click the **Tools > Options** menu item > Grids and Snap category > Grids subcategoryon page 1537.
- 2. Click **Radial Move Setup**.
- 3. In the Radial Move Setup Dialog Box, on page 1652set up options and click **OK**. You can now use Radial Move.

**Tip** Use the modeless command GP to make the polar grid visible in the design. You can click the **Setup> Set Origin** menu item to change the location of the polar grid origin, but you must Redraw to see the change.

**Related Topics**

Component Arrays

Moving Design Objects Radially

## DRC and the Via Stitching and Shielding Operations
The Design Rule Checking setting determines how the Via Stitch and Add Via Shield operations can add vias.

The Design Rule Checking (On-line DRCon page 1503) setting works with these operations in the following ways:

- Even when the DRC setting is Off, the Via Stitch and Add Via Shield operations do not add vias that violate clearance rules for pins, coppers, keepouts, texts, and board outline. However, the operations may create violations with traces if the DRC setting is Off.
- If the DRC setting is Prevent Errors, DRC prevents the via stitching and shielding operations from placing any via that violates design rules, including traces.
- If the DRC setting is Warn Errors, when the stitching and shielding operations place vias that violate design rules, DRC displays the warning "Clearance violations detected. Permit?"