# Chapter 28 Clearances and Spacing
Read the topics that follow to learn more about the procedures for using the **View > Clearance** menu item to check distances between objects.

Viewing the [Clearance](#page-0-0) Between Nets Viewing the Clearance Between Items and Annotating [Dimensions](#page-0-1) Viewing the [Clearance](#page-1-0) Between a Net and an Item

## Viewing the Clearance Between Nets
Use Net-to-Net Clearance to detect the location of the smallest spacing between two specified nets.

**Procedure**

- 1. Click the **View > Clearance** menu item.
- 2. In the View Clearance Dialog Box, click **Net to Net**.
- 3. To center the minimum clearance marker in the workspace, select the "Pan to Minimum Clearance Marker" check box.
- 4. Select two nets.

A minimum clearance marker displays the minimum clearance location between the nets in the design using the Selections color from the Display Colors dialog box.

**Related Topics**

Viewing the Clearance Between Items and Annotating [Dimensions](#page-0-1)

## Viewing the Clearance Between Items and Annotating Dimensions
Use Item-to-Item clearance to measure the spacing between items and annotate a PCB layout design with dimensioning that indicates critical or problem clearances.

**Procedure**

- 1. Go to the layer on which the items are placed. If you are not on the correct layer, you will not get a true clearance.
- 2. Click the **View > Clearance** menu item.
- 3. In the View Clearance Dialog Box, click **Item to Item**.
- 4. If you intend to annotate the design with the dimensions of the spacing between your two items, click **Options** to set the placement layer and style of the dimensions.

5. Select the two items.

Supported item types are pads, vias, jumpers, traces, 2D lines, copper, and component outlines. Information about the items appears in the Selected Items area of the View Clearance dialog box. Line extensions and arrows appear on the design showing the location and size of the minimum clearance.

Clearances are measured on the current layer. When one or both selected items are not on the current layer, the clearance is measured to the centerline of the item that is not on the current layer.

6. To place the dimensions in the design move the pointer to where you want the dimensions and click. If you do not want the dimensions in the design, click Cancel.

Dimensions are added to the layers for dimensioning 2D Lines and Text as set in the Options.

## Viewing the Clearance Between a Net and an Item
Use Net-to-Item Clearance to detect the location of the smallest spacing between the net and all objects.

**Procedure**

- 1. Click the **View > Clearance** menu item.
- 2. In the View Clearance Dialog Box, click **Net to Item**.
- 3. To center the minimum clearance marker in the workspace, select the "Pan to Minimum Clearance Marker" check box.
- 4. Select a net.

A minimum clearance marker displays the minimum clearance location using the Selections color from the Display Colors dialog box.

**Related Topics**

Viewing the Clearance Between Items and Annotating [Dimensions](#page-0-1)