# Chapter 14 Layers
You can generate reports for the currently loaded design. Several report formats are provided, plus you can create reports formatted to match existing design standards. Each report pass creates a file called report.rep, which is stored in the *\SailWind Projects* folder.

[Report](#page-0-0) Types [Running a Report](#page-1-0) Running a Report Using an [Assembly](#page-2-0) Variant [Adding or Removing Report Formats](#page-2-1) [Creating Custom Reports Using the Report Wizard](#page-3-0)

**Report Types**

SailWind Layout includes two types of reports; predefined reports and customizable reports. The predefined reports provide useful statistical information about your design. The customizable reports allow you to create and configure a report that contains design-specific information that you desire for checking and testing your design.

- [Predefined Reports](#page-0-1)
- [Customizable Reports](#page-0-2)

**Predefined Reports**

The following table lists the predefined report types, which cannot be deleted.

| Report     | Description                                                                                                                     |
|------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Unused     | Provides a listing of all unused pins for each package in a design.                                                             |
| Statistics | Provides a variety of statistical information in a design such as number of<br>layers, drill locations, and routed connections. |
| Limits     | Provides maximum numbers of the various design items, based on your<br>program's package limits.                                |

**Table 123. Predefined Reports**

**Customizable Reports**

SailWind Layout includes report format files that you can customize to fit specific output requirements. These files are located in *C:\<install\_folder>\<version>\Settings* and were created using the Report Generation Language(RGL). The file name extension used for these files is *.fmt*.

To help you select the proper report, report files are listed in the Reports dialog box by description of output, instead of by file name. [Table](#page-1-1) [124](#page-1-1)lists the formats, file names, and their descriptions.

<span id="page-1-1"></span>

| Report                  | Format File   | Report Description                                                                           |  |  |
|-------------------------|---------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--|--|
| Net List w/o pin info   | netlist.fmt   | Signals by netname without pin<br>information                                                |  |  |
| Net List w/pin info     | netlistp.fmt  | Signals by netname with pin information                                                      |  |  |
| Parts List 1            | parts1.fmt    | Parts by reference designator                                                                |  |  |
| Parts List 2            | parts2.fmt    | Reference designator by part type                                                            |  |  |
| Test points report      | testpnts.fmt  | Test point locations and netname                                                             |  |  |
| Jumper List             | jumpers.fmt   | Jumper locations and netnames                                                                |  |  |
| SailWind Format Netlist | padsnet.fmt   | Netlist in current SailWind Layout format                                                    |  |  |
| PADS Format Netlist     | padsnetV2.fmt | Netlist in PowerPCB 2.0 format                                                               |  |  |
| DFT Extended Test Point | testpoint.fmt | Test points by nets, nets without test<br>points, and number of test points per net<br>Note: |  |  |
|                         |               | You must have the DFT Audit licensing<br>option to select DFT Extended Test<br>Point.        |  |  |

**Table 124. Customizable Reports**

**Jumper List Report**

You can create a Jumper List Report that lists all jumpers and their characteristics. [Table](#page-1-2) [125](#page-1-2)shows a sample report file.

JUMPER LIST REPORT -- a b c d e f g h i j.pcb

TOTAL = 3 jumper(s)

| Table 125. Jumper List Report |  |  |  |
|-------------------------------|--|--|--|
|-------------------------------|--|--|--|

<span id="page-1-2"></span>

| Ref.Nm | Angle     | Length | X1   | Y1   | X2   | Y2   | Signal |
|--------|-----------|--------|------|------|------|------|--------|
| JMP1   | 90.000000 | 350    | 1825 | 3200 | 1825 | 3550 | GND    |
| JMP2   | 0.000000  | 250    | 2600 | 3275 | 2850 | 3275 | GND    |
| JMP3   | 90.000000 | 525    | 2725 | 2400 | 2725 | 2925 | DA01   |

**Running a Report**

You can choose to run any of the 12 pre-configured reports. Two of the reports produce old format netlists.

**Procedure**

- 1. Click the **File> Reports** menu item to open the Reports Dialog Box.
- 2. In the Select Report Files for Output list, select one or more report formats.

If the report format you want is not available, you can create a custom format, see ["Adding or](#page-2-1)  [Removing Report Formats](#page-2-1)" or ["Creating Custom Reports Using the Report Wizard"](#page-3-0).

3. Click **OK**.

**Results**

The report is written to *C:\SailWind Projects\report.rep* and displayed in the default text editor. If you selected more than one report format, *report.rep* contains all the reports.

**Running a Report Using an Assembly Variant**

If your design uses assembly variants, you can create a report based on an assembly variant instead of the base design.

**Procedure**

- 1. Click the **File> Reports** menu item to open the Reports Dialog Box.
- 2. In the Select Report Files for Output list, select one or more report formats.
- 3. Select the Use Assembly Variant check box, and then select a variant from the Name list.

Uninstalled parts are listed as <<Not Installed>> and substituted parts are listed with the correct part type. Some data may not reflect the substituted parts data, for example, the Unused report reflects the gate assignments for the Default part type, but not the gate assignments for the Substituted part. If the Use Assembly Option check box is cleared, raw databaseon page 1853 data is reported.

4. Click **OK**.

**Results**

The report is written to *C:\SailWind Projects\report.rep* and displayed in the default text editor. If you selected more than one report format, *report.rep* contains all the selected reports.

**Adding or Removing Report Formats**

You can add or remove report formats from Reports dialog box. If you want to add a report format, you first create the format file using Report Generation Language.

For more information, see [Customizable Reports.](#page-0-2)

**Procedure**

- 1. Click the **File> Reports** menu item to open the Reports Dialog Box.
- 2. Modify the list of report formats:
- Add to the list a custom report format, or import a report format file:
	- i. Click **Add**.
	- ii. In the Report Format File dialog box, browse to the format file and click **Open**. The format is added to the list and copied to the *C:\<install\_folder>\<version>\Settings* folder.
- Remove a report format from the list:
	- i. Select the format.
	- ii. Click **Delete**. You cannot delete the Unused, Statistics, and Limits report types. The format is removed from the list and the file name extension is changed from *.fmt* to *.del*.
- 3. Click **OK**.

**Related Topics**

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Creating Jumper List Reports

**Creating Custom Reports Using the Report Wizard**

In a maximum of 8 steps, the Script Wizard prompts you to choose information and once complete, it creates a reusable script of the report format, runs the script against the current design, and generates your report in Plain text, RTF, Excel, and HTML formats. This method is easier than manually writing the report formats in Report Generation Language for the Reports dialog box.

**Procedure**

- 1. Click the **Tools > Basic Scripts> Basic Scripts** menu item.
- 2. In the Basic Scripts Dialog Box, scroll through the list of scripts and select SailWind Layout Script Wizard.
- 3. Click **Run**.
- 4. Proceed through the screens of the Wizard and on the final screen, either click Finish to create the script of the report or click Finish & Run Report Now to see the report also.

The basic script that generates the report appears in the Basic Scripts dialog box for reuse and the report opens in the chosen format. You can delete the basic script of the report if you do not intend to use it again.

**Examples**

Create and run a component height report listing the height of each part in the design.

- 1. Click the **Tools > Basic Scripts> Basic Scripts** menu item..
- 2. In the Basic Scripts Dialog Box, scroll through the list of scripts and select SailWind Layout Script Wizard.
- 3. Click **Run**.
- 4. On the Introduction screen, click **Next**.
- 5. On the Format screen, click Microsoft Excel and then click **Next**.
- 6. On the Report Type screen, click PCB-Based Reports and then click **Next**.
- 7. On the Database Object screen, click Parts and then click **Next**.
- 8. On the Data Type screen, click General Part properties in table format and then click **Next**.
- 9. On the Object Properties screen, in the Attribute (Select existing or type any valid name) list click Geometry.Height and then click **Add**.
- 10. On the Report Options screen, click **Next**.
- 11. On the Output Files screen, in the "Enter the name of the resulting VB script (without BAS extension)" box type a name for the report to be listed in the Basic Scripts dialog box.

**12. Click Finish & Run Report Now.**

13. An Excel report is generated for the current design reporting on the value of the Geometry.Height attribute of each part. When you need to generate the report again, select it in Basic Scripts dialog box and click Run.