# Linking to SailWind Layout Tutorial
There are two methods of forwarding SailWind Logic schematic data to SailWind Layout:

- Create a netlist that SailWind Layout can read and import it into SailWind Layout
- Use the SailWind Layout link to automatically manage the transfer of data between SailWind Logic and SailWind Layout.

The SailWind Layout link automatically passes design data between SailWind Logic and SailWind Layout and is the preferred method for synchronizing schematic and PCB design databases.

An additional benefit of the SailWind Layout link is inter-tool communication. Use this automation technology to *cross-probe* between linked applications. Cross-probing is having selections of nets, components, or pins made in one application result in the selection of the corresponding object in the linked application.

SailWind Logic is OLE Automation enabled. This capability allows you to develop custom applications using Visual Basic, Microsoft Visual C++, or other tools to extract specific data from a SailWind Logic database.

****In this lesson:****

- Creating a netlist
- Using the SailWind Layout Link

****Preparation****

If it is not already running, start SailWind Logic and open the file named **preview.sch** in the \ SailWind Projects\Samples folder.

**Requirement:** This tutorial requires the sample libraries to be in their original search order. The preview library must precede the common library in the SailWind Layout search order or errors will result.

## Creating a netlist
Creating a netlist is the basic method for passing schematic data into SailWind Layout to start the PCB design process. A netlist contains a list of the parts, their part types, and all of their net connections. Optionally, it can also include design rules and a layer stackup.

****To create the netlist:****

- 1. **Tools** menu > **Layout Netlist**.
- 2. In the Netlist to PCB dialog box, accept the default settings and click **OK** to create the netlist. A link to the Preview.asc netlist file appears in the Output Window. Click the link to open the file in your default text editor.
- 3. Review the content of the netlist file and close the file before proceeding to the next section.

## Using the SailWind Layout Link
You can cross-probe between SailWind Logic and SailWind Layout with the features of the SailWind Layout Link. Use this feature to perform schematic-driven placement or post-design reviews of the layout.

- 1. **Tools** menu > **SailWind Layout**.
- 2. In the Connect to SailWind Layout dialog box, click **New** to start a new SailWind Layout session. It may take a moment for SailWind Layout to start.
- 3. Once SailWind Layout starts, the two applications are linked and cross-probing between SailWind Logic and SailWind Layout is enabled. The SailWind Layout Link dialog box also appears. Take a moment to rearrange the size and position of your SailWind Logic and SailWind Layout application windows so they each cover half of the screen.

**Tip:** You may need to resize your views in SailWind Logic and SailWind Layout after rearranging the windows. Within each program, press **Home** to center the view in the rearranged windows.

- 4. To reduce the setup required to use SailWind Layout, you will import a file containing some basic PCB elements required for the tutorial.
	a. In **SailWind Layout**, on the **File** menu, click **Import**.
	b. Locate and import the logic tutorial.asc file in the \ SailWind Projects\Samples folder.

****Send a netlist to SailWind Layout****

Use the SailWind Layout Link to automatically generate and send a netlist to SailWind Layout.

 In the SailWind Layout Link dialog box, on the Design tab, click **Send Netlist** to generate a netlist from SailWind Logic and send it to SailWind Layout. After the process completes, all the components are positioned at the design origin, ready for placement.

**Tip:** If a prompt appears asking "Schematic net list may have errors. Do you want to continue?", click Yes.

****Schematic-driven placement****

Now that you have a SailWind Layout design with the parts and nets from the schematic, you will prepare the parts for placement. You will also put SailWind Layout in Move mode so part selections made in SailWind Logic result in movement of the selected part.

****In SailWind Layout****

Use the Disperse Components command to distribute the components around the outside of the board outline.

- 1. On the Tools menu, click **Disperse Components** and click **Yes** to confirm the dispersion.
- 2. Click the **Board** button to fit the view to the board outline.

Enable the move component verb mode.

- 1. On the toolbar, click the **Design Toolbar** button to open the Design toolbar.
- 2. On the Design toolbar, click the **Move** button to place SailWind Layout in Move Component mode.

****In SailWind Logic****

Select the J1 component in SailWind Logic.

- 1. On the Selection toolbar, click the **Nothing** filter button, then the **Parts** filter button to place SailWind Logic in a mode that enables only component selections.
- 2. Select any pin of the J1 connector on the left side of the Logic sheet of the schematic.
- 3. Move your pointer to the SailWind Layout window. You are now moving J1 in SailWind Layout.

****In SailWind Layout****

Place the component in SailWind Layout.

- 1. Right-click and click **Flip Side**.
- 2. Position it at X1650,Y400 by typing **S 1650 400** and pressing **Enter**.
- 3. Press **Spacebar** to place J1.
- 4. On the Design toolbar, click the **Select** button to exit Move Mode

****Multiple selections in SailWind Logic****

You can also move multiple components sequentially by making group selections in SailWind Logic and applying the Move Sequential command in SailWind Layout

****In SailWind Logic****

Make a group selection in SailWind Logic.

- 1. With nothing selected, position the pointer in the upper-left corner of the schematic, then click and drag the pointer toward the lower-right corner of the schematic.
- 2. Release the mouse button when several components are enclosed in the selection rectangle.
- 3. Once you complete the selection, the components corresponding to your selections in SailWind Logic are selected in SailWind Layout.

****In SailWind Layout****

Move the components in sequential order.

- 1. Right-click and click **Move Sequential**.
- 2. Click **Yes to All**.
- 3. Click to place the first component. **Result:** The next component attaches to your pointer and can be moved.
- 4. Continue to place parts until no more components attach to the pointer.

****Layout-driven selections****

You can also drive selections in SailWind Logic from selections made in SailWind Layout.

****In SailWind Logic****

Enable SailWind Logic to receive selections made in SailWind Layout.

- 1. In the SailWind Layout Link dialog box, click the **Selection** tab.
- 2. Select the **Receive Selections** check box to enable SailWind Logic to receive selections made in SailWind Layout.

****In SailWind Layout****

Select the Y1 component in SailWind Layout.

1. Use the search and select modeless command to locate and select oscillator Y1 by typing **ssy1** and pressing **Enter**.

**Result:** The Y1 component is selected in SailWind Layout and SailWind Logic.

2. Search and select C3 by typing **ssc3** and pressing **Enter**.

This demonstrates how SailWind Logic responds to selections in SailWind Layout and automatically changes sheets to bring the part in view.

3. Search and select U6 by typing **ssu6** and pressing **Enter**.

Since U6 is a multi-gated part, all gates of the part are selected in SailWind Logic. Each gate of the device is listed independently in the Search and Select box on the Selection toolbar.

****In SailWind Logic****

Choose a specific instance of U6.

- 1. Scroll through the items in the Search and Select list on the Selection toolbar and click **U6B**. The selection changes to only U6B. This is how you manage selections of multi-gated parts in SailWind Logic.
- 2. Do not save a copy of the file.
- 3. Close the SailWind Layout Link dialog box and SailWind Layout without saving any changes.

****You completed the linking to SailWind Layout tutorial.****
