# Updating a Schematic with Design Changes Tutorial
In the typical engineering environment, design modifications are documented by an Engineering Change Order (ECO). Implementation of these changes in the design may require pin and gate swaps, part deletions or additions, net deletions or additions, renaming of components, renaming of nets, or part type changes. SailWind Layout provides tools to implement these modifications quickly and records them accurately for documentation and backward annotation to the schematic.

ECO changes performed in SailWind Layout are recorded in an ASCII file with a \*.eco extension. This file, in its native format, can be read into SailWind Logic to annotate the schematic with changes made in SailWind Layout.

****In this lesson:****

- Importing an ECO file
- Compare Files and Export an ECO file

****Preparation****

If it is not already running, start SailWind Logic and open the file named **preview.sch** in the \ SailWind Projects\Samples folder.

## Importing an ECO file
Examine a few of the reference designators in the schematic. Now import an .eco file.

- 1. **File** menu > **Import**.
- 2. Click **No** if the message "Save file before loading" appears.
- 3. In the file type list, click **ECO Files (\*.eco)**.
- 4. Select the **previewassy.eco** file in the \ SailWind Projects\Samples folder, and then click **Open**.

**Result:** All reference designators on the schematic are updated. The schematic is redrawn and a message informs you that the ECO process is complete.

5. Click **OK**.

## Compare files and export an ECO file
You use the Compare/ECO command to compare schematic and design files and create an ECO file for updating SailWind Layout.

- 1. Open the file named **previeweco.sch**. Do not save changes to the preview.sch file. An extra capacitor (C11) has been added to the tutorial design.
- 2. On the Tools menu, click **Compare/ECO**.
- 3. In the Compare/ECO dialog box, click the **Documents** tab.
- 4. In the Original Schematic Design to Compare area, click **Browse**. Select the **preview.sch** design and click **Open**.
- 5. In the Output Options area, click **Browse**. Set the output file to be named previeweco.eco in the \ SailWind Projects\Samples folder and click **Save**.
- 6. Click **Run**. A link to the previeweco.eco file appears in the Output Window. Review and then close the file. One or more ecogtmp.err files may open providing information about the files being compared. You can close the files.
- 7. Start **SailWind Layout** and open the file named **preview.pcb** located in the \ SailWind Projects\Samples folder.
- 8. On the **View** menu, click **Extents**.
- 9. On the **File** menu, click **Import**.
- 10. In the file type list, click **ECO Files (\*.eco)**, select the **previeweco.eco** file in the \ SailWind Projects\Samples folder and click **Open**.
- 11. Click **OK**. A new capacitor C11 will be located near the origin.
- 12. Close SailWind Layout without saving any changes.

## Automatic Forward Annotation Using SailWind Layout Link
You can use SailWind Layout Link to automatically forward annotate changes in your schematic to SailWind Layout with the click of a button.

- 1. Open the file named **previeweco.sch**. Do not save changes to the preview.sch file. An extra capacitor (C11) has been added to the tutorial design.
- 2. On the Tools menu, click **SailWind Layout**.

**Tip:** If SailWind Layout is not already open, the Connect to SailWind Layout dialog box appears. Click **Open** to start a new SailWind Layout session with the original design. In the File Open dialog box, select the **preview.pcb** file and click **Open**.

- 3. In the SailWind Layout Link dialog box, click the **Design** Tab.
- 4. **Optional:** If you want to check the design differences before updating, click the Compare PCB button. The two versions are compared and differences written to *logic.rep* in the \ SailWind Projects folder. To see the report, click the *logic.rep* link in the Output Window.
- 5. On the **Design Tab:**
a. If needed, check the **Compare Design Rules** and **Show Net List errors report** check boxes.
b. Click the **ECO To PCB** button to send the changes.
- **Tip:** While the SailWind Layout Link dialog box is open, you can cross-probe.
- 6. In SailWind Layout, a new capacitor C11 will be located near the origin.
- 7. Close SailWind Layout without saving any changes.

You completed the ECO tutorial.