# Editing Design Elements Tutorial
You can change objects, including their placement and properties, at any time in the design cycle.

****In this lesson:****

- Modifying schematic data
- Grouping objects

****Preparation****

If it is not already running, start SailWind Logic and open the file named **previewbus.sch** in the \ SailWind Projects\Samples folder.

## Modifying schematic data
Use Properties mode to modify your data. You can modify text strings, bus names, reference designators, and most other types of data in your schematic. The properties feature is context sensitive; while you are in the Properties mode, select an object to view its properties.

In the following sections you will use Properties mode to modify various design objects in the schematic.

****Rename a net****

- 1. With nothing selected, right-click and click **Select Anything**.
- 2. Double-click the connection segment of the **28MHZ** net connected to the off-page symbol (above U7).
- 3. In the Net Properties dialog box, type **24MHZ** in the Net Name box.
- 4. Click **OK**.
- 5. Because this net already exists, the message "*Net <24MHZ> already exists - OK to combine nets?*" appears. Click **Yes** to combine the nets.
- 6. On the View menu, click **Redraw** to refresh the workspace display. **Alternative:** Press Ctrl+D to redraw.

****Rename a part****

You can use similar operations for renaming nets to rename a part; you select a part and change its reference designator property.

- 1. Right-click > Select Parts
- 2. Search for R500 by typing **sr500** and pressing **Enter**. Sheet 1 (Logic) is automatically changed to sheet 2 (Power) and the part is located.
- 3. Zoom in around R500 and double-click **R500**.

**Tip:** If the selection filter had been set to Select Anything instead of Select Parts, doubleclicking the part would open the Part Properties dialog box and double-clicking the name label would open the Reference Designator Label Properties dialog box.

- 4. In the Reference Designator area, click **Rename Part**.
- 5. In the Rename Part dialog box, type **C10**, and click **OK**. R500 is renamed to C10.

****Change a part type****

The next step to updating the component change for the R500 part is to make it a capacitor. Use the Part Properties dialog box to change its part type to a capacitor.

- 1. In Part Properties dialog box, in the Part Type area, click **Change Type**.
- 2. In the Change Part Type dialog box, in the Filter area, in the Items box type **cap12\***.
- 3. Switch the library list to **All Libraries**, and click **Apply**. All of the capacitors available in the libraries starting with cap12 appear in the Part Types list.
- 4. In the Part Types list, click **CAP1206** and in the **Apply update to** area click **This Part**.
- 5. Click **OK** to change C10 to a 1206 style capacitor.
- 6. Click **Close** to close the Part Properties dialog box.

**Tip:** Notice the capacitor is not oriented properly. Part symbols are built with alternate horizontal and vertical versions. You change the properties for the part again to set the Gate Decal to one of the alternate presentations.

****Update the attribute values****

To change the capacitance of multiple capacitors, follow these steps.

- 1. Click and drag a box around all of the capacitors including C10.
- 2. **Right-click** and **click Attributes.**

In the Part Attributes dialog box, the Attributes area lists several Names and Values. Currently, the Value box next to the Value name contains ???. **Tip:** You may need to scroll down the list.

- 3. Double-click in the **???** Value box to edit it.
- 4. Type **.1 uf** in the Value box and press **Enter**.
- 5. Click **OK** to complete the edit and automatically update all of the CAP1206 capacitors to .1 uf.

To change all of the resistance values of a type of resistor, follow these steps.

- 1. Search for R7 by typing **sr7** and pressing **Enter**.
- 2. Click to select the resistor symbol.
- 3. Right-click and click **Attributes**.
- 4. In the Part Attributes dialog box double-click in the ??? Value box next to the Value name and type **10K** and press **Enter**.
- 5. In the Apply Update To area, click **All Parts This Type**.
- 6. Click **OK** to complete the edit and automatically update all resistors.
- 7. Click **Esc** to deselect the resistor.

## Grouping objects
You can import and export groups of circuitry to and from other schematics. You can also group, duplicate, move, or delete blocks of circuitry within a schematic diagram. The first step is to define the group you'll work with.

**Caution:** Do not save the design with any changes you make in the following exercise.

- 1. **Right-click** > **Select Anything**
- 2. Click and drag a selection area that encloses the items that you want to group.
- 3. Right-click and click **Duplicate** to copy the defined group. The new duplicate attaches to the pointer.
- 4. Move the duplicate to any position on this page of the schematic, and then click to place it. **Tip:** You can save the duplicate to a file for use in other schematics. Select a group of objects, right-click and click Save to File. To paste a group into a design, on the Edit menu, click Paste from File, and select the group file.
- 5. Do not save a copy of the file.

**You completed the editing design elements tutorial.**