# Creating Reports Tutorial
This lesson demonstrates report options available in SailWind Logic.

****In this lesson:****

- Checking a net statistics report
- Outputting an unused gates and pins report
- Compiling the bill of materials

****Preparation****

If it is not already running, start SailWind Logic and open the file named **previewrules.sch** in the \ SailWind Projects\Samples folder.

## Creating a net statistics report
The Net Statistics report lists each net in the design. All pin connections for a net are listed and their status as sources, loads, or undefined pins. If pins are defined properly, this report can check the accuracy of a design by displaying questionable net connections.

- 1. **File** menu > **Reports**.
- 2. In the Reports dialog box, select the **Net Statistics** check box.
- 3. Click **OK**. A link to the NetStatistics.rep report appears in the Output Window. Click the link to open the report in the default text editor.
- 4. Examine the first net. The report indicates whether nets have a source and load. Nets marked [U-1] identify an undefined pin in this group.
- 5. Close the report file.

## Outputting an unused gates and pins report
The Unused report lists any unused gates of a part or unused pins.

- 1. **File** menu > **Reports**.
- 2. In the Reports dialog box, select the **Unused check box**, and clear the **Net Statistics** check box.
- 3. Click **OK**. A link to the UnusedGatesPins.ref file appears in the Output Window. Examine and then close the report.

Tips:

- The Unused Gate List section of the report lists unused gates by part types.
- The Unused Pins List section lists unused individual pins by part types.
- To locate gates that should not appear as unused, use the S modeless command to search for parts by reference designator.

## Compiling the bill of materials
The Bill of Materials looks into the part type data for every part in the design and arranges the information in a parts list format. You can customize the format of the report by entering unique column headers and specifying column width:

- 1. **File** menu > **Reports**.
- 2. Click the **Bill of Materials** check box and clear the **Unused** check box.
- 3. Click **Setup**.
- 4. In the Bill of Materials Setup dialog box, click the **Attributes** tab.
- 5. In the Field Header column, double-click **Reference**.
- 6. Type **Ref Des** in the box and press **Enter**.
- 7. In the Width column, double-click the value **15** next to the Part Name.
- 8. Type **12** in the box for a new column width and press **Enter**.
- 9. Click **OK**.
- 10. Click **OK** in the Reports dialog box. A link to the BillOfMaterials.ref file appears in the Output Window. Click the link to open the report. Review the contents of the bill of materials report, then close the report.
- 11. Do not save a copy of the file.

****You completed the creating reports tutorial.****
