# Chapter 23 Licensing
Your license for the software may be limited and may not enable all software features. Read the sections that follow to learn more about SailWind Router licensing and associated features.

You may work in a multi-user setting where multiple licenses are available of which some enable general features and other licenses enable advanced features. You can use the Installed Options dialog box on page to check which software features you are licensed to use, or to control which license or licenses you consume of the many licenses that are available when using the software. For example, if you have many suite licenses but limited atomic licenses of an advanced feature-set of the software, and you are not using those features, you can free up that license and allow it to be consumed by someone else who requires those software features.

[Viewing](#page-0-0) a Node Locked License File Viewing the [Floating](#page-0-1) License Status [Checking Out Suite Licenses](#page-1-0)

## Viewing a Node Locked License File
If you are using node-locked licensing, you can view the contents of a license file.

**Procedure**

- 1. Choose the **Help > Installed Options** menu item; then, in the Installed Options dialog box, click the **License File** tab.
- 2. On theLicense File tabon page 418, select the license file that you want to view from your list of license files.
- 3. Click **View** to display the contents of the selected file in the bottom portion of the screen.

## Viewing the Floating License Status
If you use a floating license, you cannot view the license file that is in use, but you can view the status of the features associated with the server license.

**Procedure**

- 1. Choose the **Help > Installed Options** menu item; then, in the Installed Options dialog box, click the **License File** tab.
- 2. On the License File tabon page 418, select the server license file for which you want to display feature status.
- 3. Click **Status**. The feature usage information appears in the bottom portion of the screen.

## Checking Out Suite Licenses
Use the PADS Suite Configuration dialog box to manage which suite licenses you consume.

**Restrictions and Limitations**

To use this functionality, it is imperative that you remove any FlexNet Options files and/or batch script customization.

**Prerequisites**

This functionality is applicable only if you have floating licenses, and on your license server you have one of the following:

- A mix of different PADS Suite licenses. For example, PADS LS/padsls\_c and PADS ES/padses\_c.
- One or more PADS Suite licenses and one or more PADS Kit licenses. For example, PADS ES/padses\_c and pwrshell and other similar features, as part of SailWind Layout 065 Kit.

**Procedure**

- 1. Choose the **Help > Installed Options** menu item; then, in the Installed Options dialog box, click **Suite Configuration**.
- 2. The check the status of all listed licenses, click **Check status**.
- 3. Select the license file to use from the list.
- 4. To determine which Suite licenses are being used each time you start SailWind Router, select the "Show this dialog box on program startup" and "Automatically check license status on dialog box startup" check boxes.
- 5. Click **OK**.