## Defining Split Planes After Routing in SPECCTRA
When your design process involves splitting planes after you route the design in SPECCTRA, you do this in SailWind Layout.

**Procedure**

1. Assign layers as Split/Mixed Plane Layer Type: Before you can add split plane nets and data to a layer, you must assign the layer as split/mixed. (For more information, see "Layers Setup Dialog Box" and Plane Layer Nets Dialog Box".)

For best results:

- Do not define a plane area polygon for the split/mixed layer prior to autorouting in SPECCTRA. SPECCTRA considers that the entire plane layer belongs to all nets and provides short fanout traces for SMD pins connected to the plane nets.
- Limit the assignment of split/mixed to internal, embedded plane layers. Assigning external routing layers as split/mixed layers may produce unexpected results.
- 2. Route the design in SPECCTRA: Once you assign the proper layer and net data for the plane layer, you can transfer the design to SPECCTRA. (For more information, see "Loading In and Out  of SPECCTRA Automatically".)
- 3. Define the plane polygons: Create split plane polygons for each net assigned to the plane layer using the steps described in "Creating a Plane Area" and "Auto Separate."

**Tip**

If you want to pass this design to SPECCTRA again after you define split/mixed planes, see the information below. Also see Routed Traces on SailWind Layout Split/Mixed Plane Layers.

With SailWind Layout you can define overlapping plane polygons, but plane flooding detects overlaps and automatically adjusts the plane fill area to eliminate overlaps. SPECCTRA, however, does not offer features to automatically adjust overlapping polygons. SPECCTRA may produce unexpected results when large numbers of overlapping polygons are translated.

For best results:

- Define planes using Auto Separate only. This eliminates the possibility of overlapping plane areas or plane area cutouts.
- If you prefer to create planes as polygon rectangles and circles, create the smaller polygons first and then add polygons around them rather than creating a larger polygon and embedding a smaller polygon within it.
- 4. Flood the split/mixed plane polygons: After routing is completed and the design returns to SailWind Layout, flood the plane polygons.
- 5. Verify the plane net continuity: After flooding the planes, verify the continuity of the plane nets. This process scans the plane polygons and route data and reports portions of nets disconnected from the plane polygons. For information on how to do this, see "Verify the Design", "Plane Checking Setup", "Creating a Copper Plane Manually", "Creating a Copper Plane Automatically" and "Plane Checking Setup."