# **Chapter 8 Undo, Redo, Repeat, Delete**

Use the Undo, Redo, Repeat, and Delete commands to cancel or repeat your last operation on a design object. Undo and Redo clear all objects in the design before running. The Undo command updates graphics in the workspace and updates the Project Explorer.

An undo buffer contains recorded database changes. When the buffer is full, the oldest change is deleted.

New, Open, Save, Save As, Restore, and Autoroute clear the undo and redo buffer, and make Undo and Redo unavailable.

Use the Undo and Redo list boxes on the main toolbar to open the list of recent operations. Select the operations in the list you want to undo or redo. Use these commands to undo and redo your last command operation. Undo and Redo deselect all objects in the design before running.

[Undoing a Command](#page-0-0) [Redoing a Command](#page-0-1) [Undoing Multiple Commands](#page-0-2) [Redoing Multiple Undos](#page-1-0) [Repeating Operations](#page-1-1)

## <span id="page-0-0"></span>**Undoing a Command**

Undo the last command on a selected object.

### **Procedure**

<span id="page-0-1"></span>Click the **Edit > Undo** menu item, or click the **Undo** button on the main toolbar.

# **Redoing a Command**

Redo the last undo on a selected object

### **Procedure**

<span id="page-0-2"></span>Click the **Edit > Redo** menu item, or click the **Redo** button on the main toolbar.

# **Undoing Multiple Commands**

You can undo multiple actions at one time.

### **Procedure**

- 1. Click the arrow next to the **Undo** button on the standard toolbar to see a list of the most recent actions you can undo.
- 2. Click the action you want to undo. When you undo an action, you also undo all actions above it in the list.

## <span id="page-1-0"></span>**Redoing Multiple Undos**

You can redo multiple undos.

#### **Procedure**

- 1. Click the arrow next to the **Redo** button on the standard toolbar to see a list of the most recent actions you can redo.
- 2. Click the action you want to redo. When you redo an action, you also redo all actions above it in the list.

### <span id="page-1-1"></span>**Repeating Operations**

You can repeat a series of operations, thus simplifying a repetitive sequence of steps.

#### **Procedure**

- 1. Select an object in the design.
- 2. Perform a command or series of commands.
- 3. Select another object.
- 4. On the standard toolbar, click the **Repeat** button.

Alternatively, click the **Edit > Repeat** menu item.

#### **Examples**

You want to unroute and re-fan out two or more components in your design. You also want to highlight the components. To do this:

- 1. Select one of the components.
- 2. Right-click and click the **Unroute** popup menu item.
- 3. Right-click and click the **Fanout** popup menu item.
- 4. Click the **Edit > Highlight** menu item.
- 5. Select the next component.
- 6. Click the **Edit > Repeat** menu item.
- 7. Repeat steps 5 and 6 for any additional components.