# Learning the User Interface
The SailWind Router user interface is designed for ease of use and efficiency. SailWind Router is designed to meet the needs of the power user, while keeping the beginner in mind. SailWind Router's interface and interaction is like other Windows™ applications, including SailWind Layout. You can interact with SailWind Router using the keyboard, menus, toolbars, and shortcut menus.

**In this lesson:**

- Pointer position display
- Canceling commands
- Shortcut menus
- Panning, Zooming, and Scrolling
- Selecting objects

**Preparation**

If it is not already running, start SailWind Router and open the file named **preview.pcb** in the \ SailWind Projects\Samples folder.

## Pointer position display
As you move the pointer around the workspace, its position, in absolute X, Y coordinates relative to the origin, appears on the Status Bar in the lower right corner of the screen.

- 1. Place the pointer on the design and note the reading on the Status Bar.
- 2. Move the pointer around the workspace and note how the X, Y coordinates change as the pointer position changes.

## Canceling commands
You can cancel the current command or sequence at any time by pressing Esc or by rightclicking and clicking Cancel from the shortcut menu that appears.

**Exception:** You cannot use Esc to cancel or stop an autoroute operation.

## Zooming, panning, and scrolling
**Zoom**

Several methods exist for the centering and magnification of a design. In this exercise, you'll use the mouse methods:

 For two-button mouse operations, Zoom on the standard toolbar enables and disables Zoom mode. In Zoom mode, the pointer changes to a magnifying glass.

- For three-button mouse operations, Zoom mode is always available using the middle mouse button.
- For a mouse with a wheel button, you can combine shortcut keys with the wheel button to scroll and to zoom.

**Tip:** Pan and Zoom functions are also available using commands on the View menu, using the numeric keypad, and using the Windows scroll bars. For more information on Pan and Zoom, see the *SailWind Router Help*.

**Practice Zooming**

1. On the standard toolbar, click the **Zoom** button .

**Exception:** If you are using a three button mouse, skip this step.

- 2. Zoom in.
	- Click and hold the left mouse button in the center of the workspace area you want to magnify.
	- **Exception:** If you are using a three-button mouse, click and hold the middle mouse button.
	- Drag the pointer upward, moving the mouse away from you. A dynamic rectangle attaches to and moves with the pointer.
	- When the rectangle encompasses the area you want to magnify, release the mouse button to complete the operation.
- 3. Zoom out. Repeat step 2, but drag the pointer downward, moving the mouse towards you. A stationary rectangle, representing the current workspace view, appears with a dynamic rectangle, representing the ratio of current zoom level to new zoom level.
- 4. Practice using Zoom to adjust the magnification.

**Tip:** To reestablish the original view, click the **View Board** button on the standard toolbar.

5. To end Zoom mode, click the **Zoom** button on the standard toolbar.

**Zooming with a mouse wheel button**

- 1. Press and hold **Ctrl**.
- 2. Rotate the wheel button up (away from you) to zoom in.
- 3. Rotate the wheel button down (toward you) to zoom out.

**Changing the zoom level in the navigation window**

You can modify the zoom level of the navigation window while in the workspace.

- 1. Point to the center of the design in the workspace and press **F5**. The zoom level increases in the navigation window. Press and hold F5 to zoom smoothly.
- 2. Point to the center of the design in the workspace and press **F6**. The zoom level decreases in the navigation window. Press and hold F6 to zoom smoothly.

**Panning**

- 1. Point to the center of the new view and stop moving the pointer.
- 2. Press **Insert**. The area under the pointer in step 1 is now the center of the view.

**Alternative:** Click the middle mouse button. You do not need to be in Zoom mode to pan with a three-button mouse.

**Smooth scrolling with a three-button mouse**

- 1. On the Tools menu, click **Options**.
- 2. Click the **Global/General** tab, and in the Pointer Settings area, select the **Pan display with pointer movements** check box.
- 3. Click **OK**.

**Result:** Move a component or trace to the edge of the screen and the software automatically pans in the pointer direction. Smooth scrolling is also enabled.

**Scrolling vertically and horizontally with a wheel button**

- 1. Rotate the wheel button up (away from you) to scroll up.
- 2. Rotate the wheel button down (toward you) to scroll down.
- 3. Press and hold **Shift**.
- 4. Rotate the wheel button up to scroll left.
- 5. Rotate the wheel button down to scroll right.

## Selecting objects
You can select any object (such as a component, trace, or net) by positioning the pointer over the object and clicking. This is called *object-oriented selection*.

**Cycle selection**

Selecting a particular object may take a few tries in a crowded area. To eliminate multiple selection attempts, you can cycle through all of the objects near a current selection.

- 1. Right-click and click **Select Anything**.
- 2. In the workspace, select U1, pin 28. U1 is the large SOIC in the middle, bottom of the board. Pin 28 is the top, left pin on U1.
- 3. Press **Tab**, or click the **Cycle** button on the standard toolbar, to cycle through all of the selectable objects in the vicinity of pin 28.
- 4. Stop cycling when you select the item you want.

During designing, you may want to select only specific objects. For example, you may want to select only components. Restrict selections using the Selection Filter toolbar. With the Selection Filter toolbar, you can specify which design objects are selectable. Items turned off in the toolbar cannot be selected.

**Filter selection**

- 1. On the standard toolbar, click the **Selection Filter** button . The Selection Filter toolbar appears just below the standard toolbar.
- 2. On the Selection Filter toolbar, click the **Anything** button to enable selection of all objects.
- 3. Click the **Components** button to disable component selection.
- 4. Point to a component outline in the workspace and try to select it. You cannot select it.
- 5. Point to an object other than a component and select it. You can select other objects.
- 6. Press **Esc** to deselect all objects.

**Use selection shortcuts**

If you right-click when no objects are selected, a shortcut menu containing a list of selection shortcuts appears. Clicking one of these shortcuts updates the Selection Filter toolbar to include only the items enabled in the shortcut menu.

- 1. With nothing selected, and the Selection Filter toolbar open, right-click and click **Select Nets**. Note how the Selection Filter toolbar updates to allow net selection only.
- 2. Right-click again and click **Select Anything**. The Selection Filter toolbar updates to allow selection of any object (except nets, pin pairs, and path, which are always off by default).

**Selecting all objects of one type**

You can use the Selection Filter toolbar or the selection shortcuts to select all items of one object type.

- 1. With nothing selected, right-click and click **Select Components**.
- 2. Right-click again and click **Select All** to select all the components in the design.
- 3. Do not save a copy of the design.

**You completed the user interface concepts tutorial.**
