# Checking for Design Rule Violations
The Design Verification command lets you check a design for clearance, connectivity, highspeed, and plane errors. This advanced space checking is quick and accurate to .00001". With the SailWind Router Design Verification command, you can check designs for Clearance Rules violations including:

- Nets against all objects
- Same net restrictions
- Minimum/maximum trace width

If you also have optional security features such as SailWind High-speed Routing and DFM, additional checks are available including:

- Net and pin pair length
- Differential pairs
- Automatic testing violations
- Fabrication

**In this lesson:**

- SailWind Router design verification versus SailWind Layout design verification
- Checking design rules in SailWind Router
- Checking design rules in SailWind Layout

**Restriction**

This tutorial requires the Verify Design security option. In SailWind Router, click **Installed Options** on the Help menu to determine whether you can proceed.

**Preparation**

If it is not already running, start SailWind Router and open the file named **previewrouterverify.pcb** in the \ SailWind Projects\Samples folder.

## SailWind Router design verification versus SailWind Layout design verification
SailWind Router includes many advanced features including optional high-speed design rules support for component rules, via at SMD, differential pairs, and matched length rules. Designs using these advanced rules can be checked with the Design Verification command within SailWind Router.

Design verification support for these advanced features does not exist in SailWind Layout; however, checking of component rules, via at SMD, differential pairs, and matched length rules is accessible from within SailWind Layout. This lets you find and correct design errors without going back and forth between SailWind Layout and SailWind Router.

## Checking design rules in SailWind Router
**Options button > Design Verification tab**

The Design Verification tools in SailWind Router scan the design database looking for all design rule violations. If errors are detected, they are identified with an error symbol and itemized in the spreadsheet window.

**Perform a complete clearance check**

- 1. You can set up design verification using options on this tab. Alternatively, click one of the predefined Design Verification schemes in the Design verification scheme name list.
- 2. You can check the entire design or just the part of the design visible in the workspace. What you check is determined by the Conduct checks area.

If the **In visible workspace only** box is selected, use the zoom commands to scale the design and set the checking area. If the **In visible workspace only** box is cleared, the entire design is checked independently of the area that is visible in the workspace.

3. In the Conduct checks area, select the **On visible objects and layers only** box, to check visible objects only. Clear the **On visible objects and layers only** box to check everything in the design, even if an object or entire layer is invisible.

**Tip:** Change the visibility of objects and layers using the Display tab on the Options dialog box.

- 4. In the Check design for area, select the **Object Clearance** box.
- 5. Make sure the **Net against all objects**, **Keepout restrictions**, and **Objects against board outline** boxes are selected. Clear all other check boxes.
- 6. Click **OK** to exit the Options dialog box.
- 7. To check the design, click the **Verify Design** button on the Design Verification toolbar. **Alternative:** Click Verify Design on the Tools menu.

**Viewing spacing errors**

The design will contain errors. Examine the errors using one of the following methods:

- Use the error report, displayed in the Errors tab of the spreadsheet window, to get information about errors found.
- On the Selection Filter toolbar, click the **Errors** button , select an error marker in the design, right-click, and click **Properties**. The Error Properties dialog box appears. You can use SailWind Router placement and routing tools to correct the errors.

When finished, do not save a copy of the design.

**You completed the design verification tutorial.**
