## **Chapter 21 Verify the Design**

SailWind Router provides multiple tools for checking a design for errors.

[Checking a Design for Errors](#page-0-0) Verify Design Error [Markers](#page-1-0) [Finding Errors](#page-1-1) [Displaying Ignored Errors](#page-2-0) Exporting the Design [Verification](#page-2-1) Errors to a Report [Ignoring Errors](#page-3-0) [Clearance Checks Using Hatch Outlines](#page-3-1) Creating a Design [Verification](#page-3-2) Scheme

## <span id="page-0-0"></span>**Checking a Design for Errors**

Set up design verification to inspect your design for errors. You can then view the errors in the **Errors** tab of the Spreadsheet window or in the Error Properties dialog box.

#### **Procedure**

- 1. Click the **Tools > Options** menu item; then, in the Options dialog box, click the **Design Verification** category.
- 2. In the **Design Verification** category, select a scheme name from the Design verification scheme name list if you want to modify a predefined set of design checks. To create a new design verification scheme, set the individual design checks and properties you want, and then click **Save As**.
- 3. In the "Conduct checks" area, restrict what you want to check in the design if needed.
- 4. In the "Check design for" area, select the check boxes of the parameters you want to verify.

Verification is based on the combination of your settings in both the **Design Verification** category and the **Fabrication** category of the Options dialog box.

- 5. When you finish making your verification settings, click **OK**.
- 6. On the Standard toolbar, click the **Design Verification** button.
- 7. If necessary, on the Design Verification toolbar, click the **Clear Errors** button to remove any error markers from the design.
- 8. On the Design Verification toolbar, choose the scheme you modified or created and saved in a previous step.
- 9. Click the **Verify Design** button to check the design. Error locations are flagged in the work area with round symbols indicating the error type. Errors also appear in the list on the **Errors** tab of the Spreadsheet window and in the Error Properties dialog box.
- 10. Correct any errors using Placement and Routing tools.

#### **Related Topics**

Verify Design Error [Markers](#page-1-0) Creating a Design [Verification](#page-3-2) Scheme Exporting the Design [Verification](#page-2-1) Errors to a Report [Ignoring Errors](#page-3-0) Options Dialog Box, Design Verification Category Options Dialog Box, Fabrication Category

### <span id="page-1-0"></span>**Verify Design Error Markers**

SailWind Router can visibly mark errors in your design after performing design checks.

| Marker | Description |                                                                                          |
|--------|-------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|        | Clearance   | Testability                                                                              |
|        | Fabrication | High-speed                                                                               |
|        | Keepout     | Board outline                                                                            |
|        | Assembly    | Maximum via number<br>Tip<br>One marker is added for<br>every net with too many<br>vias. |

#### **Table 85. Verify Design Error Marker**

## <span id="page-1-1"></span>**Finding Errors**

Use the error icon in the Type column of the Spreadsheet window for quick visual identification of the error.

#### **Procedure**

1. On the **Errors** tab of the Spreadsheet window, click the hyperlink representing the error explanation.

The display zooms in and centers the corresponding error in the workspace.

2. Review the error information as follows:

- Expand the error description in the Type column to view additional error details.
- Use the Layer column to identify the layer on which the error is found.
- View the design rule violation details in the Rule Violated column. To view the entire error, resize the column by double-clicking the right-hand column separator.

# <span id="page-2-0"></span>**Displaying Ignored Errors**

If you have chosen to ignore errors, you can redisplay them.

### **Procedure**

Perform one of the following:

- Click the **Display Ignored Errors** button on the Design Verification button
- Clear the "Ignore error during verification operations" check box in the Error Properties dialog box
- Clear the corresponding "Ignored" check box on the **Errors** tab of the Spreadsheet window

#### **Related Topics**

Options Dialog Box, Design Verification Category

Verify Design Error [Markers](#page-1-0)

[Ignoring Errors](#page-3-0)

### <span id="page-2-1"></span>**Exporting the Design Verification Errors to a Report**

You can create an error report of the Design Verification errors and store it in HTML format, letting you share the information with other members of the design team.

#### **Procedure**

- 1. Run Design Verification to display errors in the **Errors** tab of the spreadsheet window.
- 2. In the Spreadsheet window, click the **Errors** tab.
- 3. In the Spreadsheet window, click the **Export to HTML File** button.
- 4. When prompted, enter the name and location under which you want to store the file.

#### **Related Topics**

[Finding Errors](#page-1-1)

### <span id="page-3-0"></span>**Ignoring Errors**

Ignore errors if they are known acceptable conditions.

#### **Procedure**

- 1. Click an error in the work area to select it then right-click and click the **Properties** popup menu item; then click the **Error** tab.
- 2. Select the "Ignore error during verification operations" check box to ignore the error.
- <span id="page-3-1"></span>3. Click **OK**.

## **Clearance Checks Using Hatch Outlines**

To completely check clearances, any hatch outlines (plane pour and non-plane pour) created by pouring operations in SailWind Layout must also be visible in SailWind Router.

If hatch outlines are invisible in a design, they are ignored during clearance checking. If pour outlines are visible, they are not verified during clearance checking.

Visible plane pour outlines are not obstacles to interactive routing and route editing, but are obstacles during automatic routing.

You can toggle the visibility of hatch and pour outlines:

- If the pour outline is visible, typing "po" displays the hatch outline and hides the pour outline.
- If the hatch outline is visible, typing "po" displays the pour outline and hides the hatch outline.

To see changes in your design when you toggle hatch or pour outline visibility, ensure you assign a visible color to layers of copper items.

#### **Related Topics**

Options Dialog Box, Design Verification Category

Setting Colors for the Design

## <span id="page-3-2"></span>**Creating a Design Verification Scheme**

Use the **Design Verification** category to create a customized design verification scheme to reuse. A scheme is an easy way to save all your current settings on this tab. You can quickly switch among the schemes to run other checks without having to specify options individually.

#### **Procedure**

- 1. Choose the **Tools > Options** menu item; then, in the Options dialog box, click the Design Verification on page 425 category.
- 2. In the "Check design for" section, select the rules you want to add to the design verification scheme. A design verification scheme can consist of several design rules to check.
- 3. After making your design verification selections, in the "Design verification scheme" area, click **Save As**.
- 4. In the Save Scheme box, type the name you want to assign to the new design verification scheme, and then click **OK**.

**Related Topics**

Options Dialog Box, Fabrication Category